Right, thanks everyone. I hope you enjoyed an ice block over the break.
So yeah, I'm talking about what we did at my organisation to improve our science workflows
to benefit the people we work for, which is dairy farmers.
And hopefully out of that journey there's a few lessons that might be useful for you.
So, a little bit about our organisation, DairyNZ.
Our purpose is to progress a better future for dairy farmers.
A couple of quick facts about the New Zealand dairy sector.
We produce more milk than Wisconsin, your dairy state, not a competition.
Also more milk than California, also again not a competition.
But there's not many people in New Zealand,
which means that 95% of the dairy products gets exported all over the world.
So it's important to us that we have products that people love and enjoy
and are happy with how that's produced.
So a lot of our work at DairyNZ is about how can we help our farmers
be more profitable, sustainable and competitive going forwards.
So this is where I think everyone wants to be.
They want to be a happy cow, they want to be doing useful work
and having the tools that are fit for purpose.
And I can't say we're always there, but I know about five years ago
we looked a lot more like this.
We were struggling to do what we needed to do
and the tools were just not fit for purpose.
So this talk is a little bit about how we channeled some of that frustration
with a bit of boldness to then create change and deliver on impact.
So why do we need to change?
Maybe a third of you will recognise this thing.
This is a floppy disk that holds about one meg worth of data.
So historically, 10, 20 years ago when we were doing a farm trial,
we'd get a few observations per day.
So you could have a major trial where all the data would fit
on about six of these floppy disks.
However, today we have wearable devices.
You can imagine Apple Watches for cows.
Devices like this are generating 60 observations a second
and you're putting this across hundreds and sometimes thousands of cows
and that's generating a metric crap tonne of data.
And so if you put all the data for a three-month trial today onto floppy disks,
the tower of floppy disks would be taller than the Burj Khalifa,
like the tallest building in the world.
Also at the same time, we had to move from linear science
in the sense of scientists would have an experiment,
they'd run the experiment, they'd throw some data at the statistician,
produce some plots and some tables, publish it, job done.
But when we're looking at this more complex data,
it becomes more iterative in the sense of looking at the data,
understanding what it's trying to tell us,
come up with some hypotheses, test those.
So a very different way of working.
So these are not all the reasons,
but these were a couple of the obvious reasons that created
that burning platform for why we needed to do something different.
So we did three things.
The first thing was around infrastructure.
So if you've opened the R for Data Science book,
this diagram's probably quite familiar.
Anyone that's got R can get started and use this workflow.
But when you want to work at scale, you want to add a few things.
So for us, we've got a data platform.
We chose Snowflake.
You might choose Databricks or something else.
For sharing code and versioning code, we use GitHub.
Again, there's other options there.
When the smoke is starting to pour out of your laptop,
it's time to move that compute to the cloud.
So we use Posit Workbench for that.
And then when we've created artifacts, tools, dashboards, et cetera,
that we want to share, then we push that through to Posit Connect.
So what guided some of those choices?
Well, it needed to be fit for purpose,
and for us, that meant performance.
It needed to be scalable,
as we did more and more of this type of work,
and reproducible is just really good practice.
Also, we're starting from a low base,
so we want a relatively low cost to start.
So some open-source tools fit the bill there.
And you also need ease of management by your IT.
So that forms part of your total cost of ownership.
You're going to need some confidence in the vendor,
but you also want to limit the technological lock-in
wherever possible, so you have options down the future.
You know, the landscape might change.
For us, support for R and Python,
we're primarily R now, but I could see there are some things
we might want to use Python for in the future,
and depending on where you're at and what your situation is,
you might make different choices.
And so this involves spending money,
so you're going to need some allies from around the organization,
extra points if you get IT on board,
and then you're going to have to get the senior buy-in.
They're the people that are going to be writing the checks
for some of this stuff.
So the second of three things, the skills and capability.
So when we were starting down this journey,
we ran R for data science as an internal course.
We ran it as a cohort, so a bunch of people
all learning at the same time,
and the temptation is whenever you're doing something
in that setting that you try and just jam it all into,
like, say, three days.
We'll bring everyone in, smash them full of knowledge,
and then job done.
But I took from the, what was the R studio education piece
that they used to have around the space learning,
which is to say, you know, if you learn a bit this week,
then you've got time to digest it and use it,
and then more the next week, et cetera.
So that space learning as a concept, I think, is quite useful.
You know, there was a few pros and cons to running it externally,
and we decided to go external for subsequent versions
and ran it through the university.
The things I like about doing it externally
is that you're getting some commitment
from both the person and the manager.
Even though it doesn't cost a lot,
you know, the fact that it actually costs something
means that that person and manager have to have a discussion
and they have to agree that this is a priority for this person,
and that means putting aside time to do it properly,
which is not necessarily what happened
when we had an internal course.
And if people got busy, then if it wasn't a priority,
it didn't happen.
I also like the summative assessment,
so assessment at the end of the course,
which is to say, you know, people understand,
you know, most of these people have been to university,
so they understand that, you know,
there's going to be a test at the end
and they're going to have to have some minimum level of knowledge
in order to pass that and not be embarrassed in front of their peers.
So I like that.
Working with the university, though,
you do have to get on the same page
because, you know, they might have different ideas
about how they want to teach it
and what's the place of AI tools in terms of teaching it.
From our perspective, like, we were quite pro-AI tools.
You know, we want the people to learn something,
but when they're in the workplace,
they're going to be using AI tools,
so we want them to learn how to work with AI tools
as part of that process.
So one of the things here is, you know,
we tried internally, it didn't work.
So in this case, you know, motion, like trying something,
if it doesn't work, you try it a different way,
but just having that motion towards where you want to be
is important.
We did do internal stats course
for a smaller subset that needed that extra statistical knowledge,
and then we ran GitHub and Snowflake lessons as well
so that people could understand the whole piece.
And then the third of the three things,
to have a bit of business discipline
around how we use these tools
and that continuous improvement mindset.
And often people can forget to celebrate the wins,
but when people do something cool,
you know, you want to acknowledge that
and, you know, even say, that's cool.
Or when you're helping someone with something
and they've overcome a barrier,
then, you know, we want to really recognize that.
That keep learning piece,
so we run our own internal R community.
You know, we have external speakers come in
and we have some, you know, colleagues that we work with externally
that come to that as well.
And we want to have a place where people can,
if not learn best practice,
then at least learn good practice.
And so we have this internal getting started book
where, you know, that's the first port of call
when they have a question.
You know, you can of course go to other people afterwards,
but, you know, if a lot of the key knowledge is there,
then that saves, you know, friction and time
between going around and asking people
because often it ends up being the same people.
So that's what we did.
And persistence, persistence is important.
It's always easy when you're short of time,
for yourself or your colleagues, you know,
to start taking shortcuts,
but that's not the way for, you know, long-term performance.
So we want to think beyond our next deadline.
We want to think about, you know,
what's best for us over our lifetime of work.
So what have we delivered?
Some use cases that, you know, might be interesting.
So we wanted to really collect quality data.
So here we've got someone out in the field
collecting pasture data by cutting pasture
for our calibrations,
which is great when it's sunny.
It's not always sunny outside,
and then so you drop it in a puddle
and then someone rides the motorbike over the top.
You can imagine what that does for data quality.
So what we've moved to is basically
digital first data entry
with a ruggedized device in the paddock,
so built an app so that we could
get that data digital first
and then boom, it's off to snowflake pretty quickly.
When you start having data
in close to real time,
then you can start doing reports with it.
So when we do a trial or experiment,
we might have cows, you know,
this group of cows
on what we call a mini-farm or a farmlet,
and these cows on another mini-farm,
they might be fed different things, for example,
and you want to understand how that's going.
You can have these
markdown or quarto reports
where the scientist and the
technical team on the ground
can see what's happening to feed supply,
what's happening to milk production, etc.
and get that real time feedback
and make sure that you're keeping an eye
on everything that needs to be working.
Another thing we do
is get information to farmers.
So this is a project
Connected Farm. So you can see this farmer here,
it's early in the day
and they're thinking about, well, what's this day
going to be like? Is it going to be
particularly hot? Do we think the cows
might be, you know,
experiencing some heat stress later
in the day?
So we did some, you know,
experimental work with a device
that measured the internal temperature of the cow.
We had our weather station,
did a predictive model, and then
that's a prototype delivering
that to a phone
or via a dashboard there
so that the farmer
can start putting in interventions
if it is going to be a risk
of heat stress.
Other tools
for farmers. So historically
a lot of our economic
information,
you know, we'd collect information
from thousands of farms
and at the end of the
financial year we'd start doing a
building report on that and create
a PDF report.
A PDF report is
okay, I guess, particularly
when a lot of people want it in hard copy.
But we move to
a markdown
and we'll move to
quarto eventually to
deliver an interactive report, which is substantially
better. But then once
we'd done that mechanics to build
an interactive report, it was only
then another step to go to something
more forward looking. So we could build
in a forecast and so
now we've got on our website
a shiny
dashboard that
farmers can refer to to see how
costs are tracking
for different regions and
people are using the same
ownership structure and then they can start
digging into the line items for those costs
to see what's happening
across the country.
And then
a final example
in terms of strategic management.
So we have
farmers that are thinking
about, okay, what do we need to do for the long
term? And quite
topical is around greenhouse gas
emissions and how do we
reduce the footprint per unit
of product? But we still
want these farmers to be profitable.
So we
did some work with Fonterra, so
Fonterra processes about
80% of the milk in New Zealand, a large
cooperative owned by farmers,
and where we wanted to be
we wanted to understand about the farms
that were in this, what we call, quadrant
one. The farms that are high for profitability
but have that low emissions
intensity of production or
low greenhouse gas emissions per unit
of product.
And so when we looked at that data
we found that
these
high profit, low emissions intensity
farms were basically scattered all
over the region. So this region
is one of our main dairy regions in
the South Island. And the good news
is that you don't have to be in
a particular place
to achieve this
low emissions and high profitability.
It is
decisions that you can make
to either be in that place
or move towards that place. So every
farmer has an opportunity
to do better in that space.
So yeah,
that was really a tremendous piece of work.
So
when you identify
a problem as
we identified a problem with what we were
doing, problems need a someone.
Someone
could be me or someone could be you.
Some of the key
tips I took away from this experience
is that motion
so that moving towards where you
want to be was far more important
than waiting until everything
was perfect and all your ducks were
in a row. As long as you're
moving in the right direction, that's a great
start.
If you want to get that scale
across your organisation,
the vision is great, but I
think you need these other two things, the allies
so you've got
all people asking for
the same thing and then getting that
senior buy-in. As I said,
they're the people that are going to write the checks for
the infrastructure that you need.
It's
great to have a plan.
My experience
is that you also need a lot
of persistence if you want to get to
that impact.
The bad news is that
you may well, like
me, need more persistence than you would
hope that it would have required.
Either way, it's going to need some persistence.
In summary, I would
say we're all
someones. If we identify
a problem, we can all
plausibly, I think,
have much more impact than
we realise if we
really pull together a plan and put
some back and persistence
in behind it. Thank you.
APPLAUSE
Thank you, Mark.
We have time for a few questions.
The first question
is from Scott. What are
one or two surprising or
unexpected insights you had in managing
a departmental change to use
deposit products, asking from
an organisation going through a similar
process?
Actually, some of the more
surprising things were just recently when
we looked to test some
options. Could we
more tightly integrate Snowflake
and Posit
Workbench, for example, to reduce that
credential overhead
of one
cloud thing talking to another cloud thing?
We've had
some success to that, and I think that's part
of our where we'll
go in the future.
You've got to be quite
clear on what your requirements are.
For example,
Connect in Snowflake
at the moment doesn't allow
for
public-facing
products, dashboards,
etc. That's a key piece of what
we do.
Just be clear on your requirements
and
you'll find the right tool and you'll find
the right combination of tools.
All right. Thank you.
Another question from Jorge.
What advantages are there
in using Posit Workbench for cloud
computing versus using Snowflake
or Databricks?
If it's just
aggregation, filtering, etc.,
you can push a lot of that compute
back to Snowflake, but when you
want to do simulation
based stuff,
there's some things that
you can't push back to
Snowflake because it's
not designed to do that.
Where
possible, absolutely push it back to Snowflake.
I think that's the most efficient
and cost-effective way for the data
compute, but for the
simulation or more complex stuff,
you're still going to need a chunky
thing on the other end.
It depends on what your needs are.
All right. Thank you.
That's all the time we have for now. A round of applause
please for Mark.
Thank you.